Added a RELEASE.md (#58)
sigstore/protobuf-specs: RELEASE.md

# Release management for protocol buffer specifications

This repository primary provides two features:

* Protobuf specifications for messages used within Sigstore.
* Language clients for different ecosystems.

During a release, a few steps have to be synchronized to release the
messages and the language clients.

## Notes on semantic versioning

### Major version change

> As expected this indicate a breaking change. Any major update MUST

Reviewer: Maybe a couple of examples of breaking changes? Field deletions or renames, tag number changes, type change

update the package name of the generated code.

### Minor version change
An update which does not break the functionality of existing (older)
clients. For more information on forward compatible changes in
protobuf see the [Language
Guide](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/proto3#updating).

### Patch version change
Any update which does not change the behaviour. For the protocol buffer
messages this is limited to _only_ capture changes in the comments,
not the messages themselves. For language clients patch versions MAY
be used for bug-fixes.

## Releasing new versions of the messages

Checklist prior to releasing:

> 1. Gather consensus among the community and maintainers of this

Reviewer: This might be pedantic, but do you want to define consensus? all or majority of maintainers? define it as "inform the community of its release, provide a comment period of X days, then release?"

Author: Agree, something that's easier to quantize is better.

   and
   [TrustedRoot](https://github.com/sigstore/protobuf-specs/blob/main/protos/sigstore_trustroot.proto),
   are expected to be persisted and serialized to disk, and exchanged
   via other mechanisms such as the [Sigstore TUF
   root](https://github.com/sigstore/root-signing). Therefore they
   contain a `media_type`. The media types are versioned, and so they
   must be updated appropriately according to semver. Each message
   SHOULD be versioned independently and so MAY differ from the
   targeted release. The media type represents the version of the
   message, not the release. Note that the media type does NOT capture
   the patch version, only major/minor.
1. Update [pyproject.toml](gen/pb-python/pyproject.toml) so the
   `version` matches the targeted release.

When all of the above are set, prepare for release by creating a tag
with the following pattern: `vX.Y.Z` and push to the repository. Bonus
point if the tag is signed :champagne:.

## Releasing new language clients

### Go

No extra step is needed. On every commit a new Go language client is
generated as part of the action

> [workflow](https://github.com/sigstore/protobuf-specs/blob/a4750f5ada0d70d66636ab00df7acf694b969750/.github/workflows/generate.yml#L45).

Reviewer 2: dunno if this should point to a specific hash like this instead of `main?

Author: Yeah, thanks!

### Java

Prepare a tag with the following pattern `release/java/vX.Y.Z` and

> push it. The [workflow](.github/workflows/python-release.yml) will

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
push it. The [workflow](.github/workflows/java-build-for-release.yml) will
```

> automatically start.

Reviewer 2: Add in:

```suggestion
automatically start. Complete the release by following the [java release instructions].(https://github.com/sigstore/protobuf-specs/blob/main/java/README.md#releasing)
```

### Python

Prepare a tag with the following pattern `release/python/vX.Y.Z` and

> push it. The [workflow](.github/workflows/java-build-for-release.yml)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
push it. The [workflow](.github/workflows/python-release.yml)
```

# Release management for protocol buffer specifications

This repository primary provides two features:

* Protobuf specifications for messages used within Sigstore.

> * Language clients for different ecosystems.

Reviewer 3: Extreme nitpick: this repo is providing language bindings for the protobuf specifications, which are then used by clients in other repositories. Not sure if it's worth an edit, but the current language might be confusing to a (distant) future maintainer 🙂

Author: Yeah, so you would prefer s/clients/bindings/ ?

Reviewer 3: Yeah, that SGTM!
